Morning, Grainne and Paula and
Andrew. Great to have you here and all your officials.
Yep.
We're in your hands, so if you'd like to start with some opening comments.
I'll start. Yeah, thanks very much. Good morning, Mr.
Chair and members of the committee.
Thanks for the opportunity to appear before you today.
As you say, I'm Grainne, the Chief Executive of the Ministry of Regulation, joined
by Paula Knapp, Andrew Royle, and Paul Dohan-Huntley and
Kevin Counsell.
Kevin's our chief economist, and Paula
runs our corporate services, Andrew's our policy, and Paul runs the
reviews and system capability section.
The Ministry of Regulation has a clear mandate about improving the quality of
regulation, improving how existing regulatory systems
perform, lifting regulatory capability, and driving long-term
system improvement, and we've a strong program of work underway
across all of these areas.
We're working with agencies to improve the design of new regulation,
reducing duplication, simplifying requirements, and improving how rules are
developed and applied.
We're also delivering practical reviews of existing systems focusing on real
change.
A key part of that work is staying grounded in how regulation's actually
experienced. And through the Red Tip hotline and
our wider engagement, we're hearing directly where things aren't
working as they should and what's shaping where we focus.
We're seeing the benefits of that approach across a range of areas.
Import rules for agricultural products, early childhood education, building rules
for simple structures, enabling nurse practitioners to support more New Zealanders.
And our impact's consistent. We're lowering compliance
costs, making processes more efficient, and
just ensuring New Zealanders need to have less time navigating
complexity, making it easier for people to run their business and get things done.
Alongside this, we've got a strong focus on the
system as a whole, and we've recently...
a major step in that's been the publication of this report, which
is the state of New Zealand's regulatory systems.
It's the first comprehensive regulatory landscape mapping,
and we have a clear picture now of the size and
complexity of the system and a shared evidence base for
reform. What this work showed is that there's
many issues that reflect broader challenges, like
fragmentation and consistency. Our role is now to turn
that into practical improvement,
working with ministers and agencies to build a regulatory system that's simpler,
more consistent, and easier for New Zealanders to navigate
while still delivering the protection that people deserve.
So thank you very much, and we'll look forward to your questions.
Thank you. I wonder, Liam, if you could maybe circulate a copy
of that PDF of your report and if that's available on-
Yeah
... would be great for the committee to see.
Yeah.
Yeah, thank you. We're going to start with Deborah Russell.
I might go to Georgia
first-
Maybe go Deborah yeah
... if that's all right.
Oh, okay. Yeah, sure.
Sorry, and then just pop her on the bottom of your list.
Thank you. Thank you for that report.
The question I had was around those
baseline savings within the budget.
And if you could talk... We talked a little bit about it with the
minister, but I'm wondering if you could give a little bit more detail
about where those baseline savings would come from.
Yeah.
So, the ministry is subject to the same baseline savings as every other
ministry. So, that's the 2%, and you'll have seen how
we've spread that out in the budget documents.
Our work is always quite flexible because we're responding to
the public, we're shaping up reviews, so we will have the
agility to
deliver those savings.
We've also done a number of things to improve our cost profile.
So for example, we've really reduced the use of consultants and contractors, so
we were quite high when we started as a ministry.
We're now down at 6%. So that has
meant that we can actually employ a couple more people, but overall that's
creating less cost.
Yeah. Thank you. And interesting that you mention the contractors and
consultants. That was going to be my next question was around that reduction.
When we spoke to the minister, he was of the view that
because of the flexibility that one gets
with a consultant or a contractor as opposed to a
permanent staff member, that was a good place to be for the
ministry. Could you
maybe just make a comment on that? Because what I heard from you was that that
would be reduced. How will the efficiency of the ministry continue?
Or what is your view on that?
Well, look, I do think that there is times that we do need independent
experts, and we do have all of our
reviews independently peer reviewed, and obviously we pay
for that as a service through a consultant or a contractor.
We would like to maintain that, but we also have a target from the Public Service
Commission around, I think it's about 10 or 11%, and at the minute we're tracking
at 6%. So we're very judicious about how we use those consultants and
contractors, and where we can do the work with permanent employees,
then obviously we choose to do that now-
Yeah, good
... that we're up and running.
Yeah. And so you
are satisfied that by reducing those contractors,
and consultants, you will still be able to do the work
efficiently-
Yes. Hopefully
... without replacing them with permanent staff? Is that the plan?
Yeah. And our workforce also does flex.
The reviews take different skills at different times.
There's different volumes of work.
So we will continue to cut our cloth to fit the budget requirements.
Yeah, great. Thank you. Deborah, did you want to-
Oh, sorry.
Oh, sorry, Ryan.
Todd Stevenson.
Oh, good. Thank you. Good morning.
Morning.
Happy Regulatory Standards Act Day.
So I've got some questions actually about-
The Regulatory Standards Act and its operation, because today is the 1st of July,
and it's all go. So obviously,
been planning for it in the last year, but the year ahead and
obviously the money you've been given will support a lot of the work around
the Regulatory Standards Act. So,
firstly, obviously the Standards Board is now up and running
today. I see that you can actually, there's a portal and everything to make
a complaint. And I think we talked to Andrew a bit about the tip line.
Is there going to be some kind of-- I'm just interested in understanding, is there
going to be some kind of triage process?
How will things then be-- how are you supporting the board?
What does that look like from the ministry's point of view?
So the board is independent.
Yeah.
We're there to support it. What we will do is we will provide them with information
and insight, but then they will choose.
So in terms of there won't actually be a triage process.
They will see any complaint that goes to them directly, and then
they will choose where they will direct their work.
Obviously, all of the insights that we've already gathered, we will share with
them, and most of those are actually in reports that are kind of publicly available
on the website.
Yeah. And as part of your support role then, have you tried to model how
many things that they'll have to look at?
I know it's very difficult, but how many things that they will have to look at
or do you have any idea of the volume of work you think
they're likely to receive and you're going to have to support?
Well, at the minute, the volume has been quite low,
but with them standing up today, there hasn't been that
much that's gone to them directly.
No.
But with them standing up today, if we look at the success of the
Red Tip tip line, we had 1,600 tips through that.
People do want to put forward their challenges and problems, and
we will support the board. We're going to do things like LinkedIn
posts, try to make sure that people know that they've got that opportunity.
So I can imagine that their work will build over time.
Yep. And then just, sorry, one last kind of line of questioning.
Then obviously a second, well, another element of the Regulatory Standards Act is
obviously now the other agencies and departments across government now
having to prepare these reports. How's your engagement with
them going, and is that going to be ongoing now, supporting them as they kind
of work out, I suppose, the best practice and get used to the new system?
So I'll give a short overview, but then I'll hand over to Andrew.
We have been investing a great deal of time in making sure that we are ready, and
agencies have been highly engaged. So we have developed guidance.
We've also run webinars for agencies, and they have been
immensely well-attended. Sometimes we've had a couple of hundred people on
a range of webinars. But I'll hand over to Andrew, who can
potentially give some more detail on some of the work we have been doing to ensure
implementation goes well.
Yeah. I don't have too much more to add to that, to be honest.
But we've had great engagement. We've run three
webinars with the sort of policy professionals who will be navigating
the new system in the last couple of weeks, which I think had about
160 attendees at each of those.
We have obviously set up the sort of machinery around
how agencies will go about engaging with us.
We're now working with agencies on what their kind of forward planning looks like.
So, as you'll be aware, one of the components of the act is every
agency needing to have a plan about how it goes about looking at its
stock, and to negotiate that plan with the minister.
So that's a piece of work from us about engaging with agencies about what those
plans look like. About how exactly they're going to come back to
review, which is obviously a key component for us about keeping
that stock live and making sure people are tidying up.
So, good solid engagement. I think agencies are
pretty well-placed at this point.
Obviously, it's a new system. System change brings a lot of queries and
inquiries, but at this point, we see agencies being pretty well-placed.
Thank you. Got a couple of supps on this. Dan Dewe.
Thanks, Mr. Chair. Yeah, happy Regulatory Standards Act Day.
So there's a new
process that laws must follow from today.
Could you give us a sense of when that takes effect, as in, we're
an agency. I guess we've already had a lot of bills introduced
yesterday, but what's the first bill that
will have an accompanying Regulatory Standards Act
document? Can you give us a sense of that?
I don't know exactly which bill it is, but it is bills introduced from today.
Yes.
And it's the new CAS is what
you'll expect to see coming in alongside the bill.
And I don't, I'm afraid, have the list of the house business in front of me to tell
you which that might be. But anything that snuck in yesterday
obviously is ahead of that deadline.
And what's your sense of the capacity of ministries and
agencies and their level of understanding of the
new environment?
Yes. Like we've had really good engagement from agencies about learning.
In some part, the new system is not entirely new
because agencies have been used to producing RSIs,
and there's some degree of comparability
with the production requirements for RIS into what the new CAS requirements are.
Not exactly the same thing.
But as I say, we've had good engagement over the last few months with agencies.
People seem to be getting their head around the new requirements.
So as I said, we don't have any concerns at this point.
Okay.
Just a supp from me on that. So are you going to be producing
RAS and CAS? Is that right? They're going-
That is right, yeah.
Okay.
So agencies will be producing
the RAS basically that comes before cabinet, so that's an information piece for
cabinet.
Right.
And then the CAS is the statutory requirement that comes into Parliament and
provides that information into Parliament.
There is a reasonable degree of alignment, and that's deliberate between the two of
them so that agencies get the most efficiency out of preparing the
information for ministers, and then that same information
being able to be put through in the CAS for parliamentary scrutiny.
Thank you. We've got some supps over here, I think. Francisco or Georgie.
Yeah.
I'm interested in how you mentioned that the new board would
assess which things would go and be investigated.
Is there a criteria that's been developed that the board would follow
around that?
So the board is independent, and they actually will decide how
they do their work. What we have done is we have shared with them the work that
we've done. We've shared guidance with them.
We've also shared with them how some of the other kind of boards work
across government. But they are independent, and they will be
looking at their mandate, which is obviously defined in the Regulatory Standards
Act, and then determining their work program moving
forward.
Right. So basically, they don't have to develop a guideline or criteria.
They can just do what they want.
Well, I think it's actually quite clearly outlined what their mandate is in
legislation, so they have to work to that.
Yes, but within the mandate, though.
Within the mandate, they are independent, and they will work together to create
their forward work program, and we will support that.
Was yours a sub, Georgia?
Yeah, mine's been answered. Thank you.
Debra.
Sorry, remind me what RAS and CAS stand for.
Sorry. The RAS is the...
Oh.
Regulatory.
Sorry. It's just eluding me.
But-
Regulatory Analysis Summary
Thank you. The Regulatory Analysis Summary.
And then the CAS is the Consistency Assessment Statement.
Apologies for that.
No, you're right. Consistency Accountability Statement.
Accountability Statement, yes.
Terrific.
So I could probably just provide a little bit more explanation around that.
That'd be good.
The
RAS is essentially a replacement to the RIS.
So RIS is that you will have seen previously coming through in terms
of supporting cabinet decisions and cabinet ministers.
The RIS, Regulatory Impact Statement,
to be honest, partly we changed the name simply to
signal that this was a new document and to make it clearer for agencies that
there is a shift happening there. The CAS is the
Consistency Accountability Statement.
That is the statutory document against which agency
chief executives will
determine whether or not a piece of legislation is consistent with the principles
under the act. So that's the statutory document.
The RAS remains the primary mechanism through which
agencies provide their independent view of
policy to cabinet. And there
is a degree, we have ensured there's a degree of alignment between the two just for
efficiency purposes so that you can use one set of information twice for
two.
So in terms of the Regulatory Analysis Statement,
will it have the same information as we currently get in the RIS?
It broadly covers the same topics.
It has been redefined slightly, as I say, for efficiency purposes, but it still
performs the same function of advising of the
agency's view of the policy that's been put forward.
And will that continue to be available to the House?
Yes.
Right. Okay. I will wait and see whether it's as good.
That'll be something for us to check next time around,
because those RIS are very, very useful for opposition.
So it'll be disappointing if the RAS is not as, misses out information,
but we'll-
Yeah. One, if I could just comment on that.
I appreciate it wasn't a question, but just for further information, one of the
things that we're also seeking to do with this reform in the
system, obviously
bringing the system into alignment with the new Regulatory Standard Act
requirements,
is a useful thing to do for agencies.
Well, if you think, yeah.
The fact that CAS will be produced means that we found
there's a useful value in making sure you have a consistency through
that process so that agencies are not replicating information or designing things
or simply writing things again in different language.
However, also what we wanted to do at this point,
which is a policy shift that cabinet agreed to but wasn't
necessarily associated with the act, is
make sure that the RIS, well now the RASs, are really
providing crunchy
information that's easy to access or that people can understand.
So instead of having RIS that might range sort of 40 to 100
pages,
making sure that they're still as useful, that you still get the same independent
agency view from them, but you get it in a way that's more
accessible.
So I'm hopeful that for any person who's
reading those, whether the opposition or whether members of the public, that it'll
be a more accessible way of understanding what that agency
view of the policy is.
Well, I'm a little concerned because as a parliamentarian, I really rely on
what's in the RIS.
And it does take a bit of skill to read it, but we anticipate that as
parliamentarians we develop those skills.
So I think we're going to have to put this down, have a look and see whether it
actually does serve Parliament, not just the executive in
due course.
As I say, the intention of that redesign is to make sure
that that information is more useful to you, not less useful.
Yeah.
So we'll appreciate your feedback on that.
Now, and so in terms of the
consistency assessment, whatever it is,
hate the damn acronyms,
consistency with the principles in the Regulatory Standards Act.
So you'd have to agree with those principles in the first place for it to be
useful.
Well, the purpose of the statement is to determine whether or not
the, again, it's an independent view from the agency, but whether or not the policy
is consistent with the principles. That is the sole purpose of that document.
Sounds interesting. Last
year, at the annual review, we had quite a discussion about the
tip line and what it was actually going to cost to operate, and
I think you didn't know at the time.
You couldn't tell us how much it cost, and you had to come back to us after the
hearing as to how much the tip line cost to operate.
And I think the number you came up with eventually was something like about
450,000.
Mm-hmm.
Is that still about what you think the tip line costs to operate?
I think it is. Paul, do you want to chat through that?
Sure.
Yeah.
So the tip line costs us about $5,000 to $6,000 a year to run.
Is that value for money?
Absolutely.
How can you tell that?
So on the back of each of our submissions that we get, we do the
analysis, we make recommendations.
We undertake a cost benefit analysis on those,
and they are very positive. So one example I can
provide is around some changes we made to medical conferencing.
The what, sorry?
Medical conferencing.
Yep.
So enable medical conferencing to take place in New Zealand.
We've removed some regulations that were in the Health Act.
We've calculated that's going to be worth between $6 and $35 million over the next
10 years.
And that came in through the tip line?
Yes.
Okay. What else has come in through the tip line that's actually been useful rather
than just people just venting?
Sure. So
solar installations. So we're doing a review at the moment of solar installations,
solar panels. So that came in through the tip line.
What was the regulatory problem there that came in through the tip line?
People find it complex and confusing to navigate the solar installation
process. So we've just released recently a-
Sorry, but was that a regulation that was causing the problem, or just that it was
hard to get solar installers or something like that?
The regulation. There are numerous steps in the process that require
inspectors to sign off. It's the complexity
between all the different steps. People don't understand the full end-to-end
process. They understand their part of it.
So what we've done through that exercise is actually give greater visibility to the
end-to-end process and how the handoff points actually take place.
There are four different inspection points actually required.
In Australia, there's one. So when we've compared ourselves to overseas
jurisdictions, we have additional complexity in our solar installation process,
especially for small, simple installations.
So you couldn't have a stock standard kind of installation process for small ones.
In New Zealand, doesn't matter if it's small, medium or large, you go through the
same process. And so there's a lot of inefficiencies in the system that we're
identifying, and that'll cue to go to cabinet in the next month.
Of course, the point of a solar installation is obviously it needs to work, but it
also needs to be safe.
Correct.
Are you satisfied that the changes that might
happen will keep people safe?
So we're working with WorkSafe and MBIE, and the inspectors
themselves. Obviously regulation is there to prevent harm.
It might be social, environmental harm,
harm to people.
I was going to say, I like the one that sort of keeps people from being harmed.
Absolutely, and so we are not interested in introducing anything that would
provide additional harm to individuals.
Okay. All right. Thank you.
I'm just going to sup on there, and I think solar's a good example.
So for the record, support the changes
that are being made, but ECA and MBIE were
doing work around this. This was not an unknown
issue-
Sure
... in terms of it. So what's your threshold for saying it came in
through the tip line?
Well, we've had a number of submissions into the tip line, so that happened.
Yeah. But this was a program of work in government anyway, is my point,
looking at the regulatory tangle around solar.
We haven't seen any evidence of anyone doing end-to-end review of solar.
So definitely-
But in terms of the regulation with it.
So I guess going to Deborah's point in terms of assessing the
value-
Sure
... it really has to be around additionality.
Would this have happened without the tip line?
In terms of the-
What's the counterfactual there?
... the problem being known,
the ability for agencies that are working close to
identify those issues. So I guess what is the
mechanism that you're going to have in place to
measure the additionality that this is
adding to the system?
Sure. So with this particular one, so were MBIE doing some work? Yes.
Have ECA been doing work? Yes. Have the Electricity Authority been doing some work?
Yes. They've all been working in isolation of each other.
It hasn't been well integrated. So what we've managed to bring is everyone to the
table, and actually look at that, but also with industry.
So I think the key thing here is we've managed to engage industry through this
process.
I think we're getting really great buy-in.
Like ECA, for example, have really stepped up with regard to some of our
recommendations and wanting to actually step in and own some of the
recommendations.
Sure. Sorry, but the tip line's not inherent
in your ability to do that.
I think the tip line is because to be honest, the information was presented
via the industry into the tip line.
Right.
And it actually provided a different perspective and actually a different
focus to the work. And then we were able to actually select the piece of work that
solved that particular part of the problem, which was the
installation for smaller installations.
That would not actually have been accelerated and executed if
the information hadn't come through the tip line.
Sorry, there would not have been. That's quite a counterfactual, Karen.
Well, it wouldn't have been being done at the minute.
It might've been on the work program for the future, but actually what's happened
is, is that work has been done much faster, and it's been prioritized
because of feedback from New Zealanders into the tip line, and
I think that's a really valuable part of the tip line is people are telling us
what's actually bothering them, and it gives
officials in Wellington a perspective from all around the country of what's
actually bothering people on a day-to-day basis, and then allows them to prioritize
and push for changes that will help those people
that have submitted.
So is it a simple poll? Is it a simple poll?
You tot up at the end of the day, how many phone calls have we had
about this, therefore we'll prioritize that.
Like you're saying that if you hadn't had it, it wouldn't have been
prioritized. So just trying to understand how it works.
So volume, there's some perverse incentives there
if it's a straight volume measure.
Yeah. No, it's not a straight volume measure.
What we do do is we do do
kind of an initial triage and investigation and say, first of all, the point
that the Honorable Deborah Russell made, is it actually a regulatory
challenge? So, we would do that analysis and then say, yes, it is, therefore,
we will maybe take it to the next stage of further work.
So yes, we go through and we do a lot of detailed analysis
along the process. We don't just go
10 people have submitted on X, that must be a priority because those 10
people might have submitted on something that isn't actually a regulatory
challenge.
If I could just add to that. So in terms of like with solar, for example, we know
that in New Zealand we've got about a 3% penetration.
In Australia, that's around 30%. And overseas jurisdictions, it's also,
in California, it's obviously a very high percentage.
So we've seen a slow uptake as a result of a range of
regulatory issues and also lack of investment.
I don't think it's a regulatory issue.
Sorry. I'm sorry. There's some straight correlation and causation there.
Sorry, ladies.
Sure.
Can we not talk over her?
Yeah.
Yeah. So-
Talk some sense
... there are a range of things that have influenced
New Zealand's slow uptake of solar.
Yeah.
Regulation is one of those. And that's our lane, so
we're looking to assist in terms of simplify that as much as we can.
Sure.
In a safe way.
And look, as I said, I absolutely support the changes to solar, but
there is many and myriad reasons around New Zealand's solar
uptake. So my concern is if we're measuring impact, that
we are dealing and saying things like regulation is the reason for the
slow uptake in solar.
So there are a range of reasons for it.
And the attribution of what we're doing is very difficult to quantify in terms of
there are numerous things that actually contribute to all the things we're doing.
It's not a one-to-one relationship, and I think it's...
I think-
Yeah. So you'll be careful about what you claim then for the timeline.
Sure. Yep.
Actually, we've got a supplementary from
Yeah, thanks. It's interesting, actually. I get a lot of questions.
People get frustrated because different government departments are operating in
silos doing different things. It sounds like in the solar example, one
of the
key things you did was actually bring together disparate pieces of
work and then map the whole end-to-end journey.
Is that correct about what you explained and-
The disparate pieces of work. So were other agencies aware of what they were doing?
Yes. Mapping the whole system has been something that hadn't been done before,
similar to what we did with the regulatory landscape work, was actually mapping it,
bringing visibility to these things and making it.
So we had some feedback specific from industry saying, "Actually, until you mapped
this, we didn't understand what our piece of the puzzle was.
We just did the piece of work that we did, not understanding all the steps it had
to go through." And so providing that visibility has actually enabled industry to
actually talk to each other a bit more as well, in terms of how can they be more
efficient in terms of handoffs.
Has it also helped the other agencies understand how they can contribute to making
that end-to-end process better?
I haven't had any feedback around that specifically.
Have had it from industry, but not from agencies, no.
Thanks.
We've got a new primary from Dr. David. We'll see.
Yeah. Welcome to what for all intents and purposes is day one,
given you've done a lot of work already .
I really like the spaghetti map. I thought that was fabulous,
and how you were trying to uncover things like duplication, complexity,
even interdependencies, those sorts of things that we may not have understood
before. So I like all of that.
So hence it's day one looking forward, my question is about
that. What do you think there is going to
be in terms of a path of usability for both parliamentarians and
the public? So have you thought through how you're going to
make the access easier for people to understand regulation in certain domains,
whatever the domain is?
So I think that's
multifaceted and our mandate is to, first of all, improve the new
regulation which comes through which the RAS and the
CAS will actually give a level of transparency to.
And as Andrea outlined, we want that to be more digestible for everybody,
including parliamentarians, but also including the public.
The public do rely on those RES and
will rely on those RAS. I think as well, what we will be able to
do is
have that overview of what does good look like and then continue to work with
agencies and where there are areas that they need to develop.
Then in terms of how New Zealanders experience current existing
regulation,
agencies haven't had a plan before, neither are required to have a plan.
And again, that's where we can get in beside them and say, "That plan doesn't seem
very clear," or, "We're not understanding the priorities," or, "Why are you
picking that?" Or we can go, "Hey, look, that's a great plan.
Other agencies could learn from that." So that will help
the improvement of the existing stock, and then again,
alongside our work on the reviews, and we'll continue.
And then the spaghetti diagram, I do think that's a really
fundamental kind of driver for our work moving forward.
I mean, 267 regulators, a number of them
regulating in the same areas. We use the example of dog
control. There's
11 primary pieces of legislation relating to dogs.
There's actually five regulatory actors.
So if you think, "Oh, I'll just review the Dog Control Act," yes, you'll get
some fixes there, but you won't get the fixes in the other 10 primary acts,
and you won't actually manage four out of the five regulatory actors that
actually make an impact on how New Zealanders are kept safe
from dogs, how they're managing dogs.
And I think what that work does is bring a real light to
some of the complexity, and then we need to surgically go kind of through
that complexity and make it simpler where it makes sense, where it makes
sense, and actually look to
remove the duplication, make sure people have clarity of
roles. One of the things we find in our reviews is we get a
lot of feedback around not the actual regulation itself, but how it's
applied. And actually, the 267 players in the
landscape actually make the application of regulation very
complex.
And we need to continue to use this work to improve things for New Zealanders
and make them simple. And in the work that we've done, we have
done a number of personas.
If you look at actually somebody who's running a small tourist operation,
they've got 11 regulators to deal with, multiple pieces of
primary legislation, multiple pieces of secondary legislation,
and that makes it more challenging for them to run a safe and efficient
business. So there's improvements that we can make.
Okay. That is cool.
Just a quick sup on that. So if I'm a minister today now and I
decide, we'll just stay with dogs because you've used that example, and we
know that the minister is looking there, but-
If
I'm a minister today and I now say, "Okay, I want to achieve a particular
outcome." So I can either go via my
ministry and then they can liaise with you.
Can I come directly to the Ministry of Regulation and say, "Oh, can you just give
me a quick snapshot of all of the regulators and
legislation in this area?" Are you able to do that
now after you've produced this-
Yep
... landscape?
Yeah.
Right.
So
yeah, we can and
what we would do is we would want to work with the ministry-
I'm sure, yeah
... because it's actually very important that they understand that map.
And
we have had good engagement from ministries and from regulators around
the map that we've done. What we've also done is we've
built this kind of data lake, I would call it, which is actually a
real asset for ministers
and for ministries because it actually can go in and pull out
map primary legislation
and regulation in certain areas. So you can ask that data lake
some questions. And we've also pulled down a lot of unstructured
data that hadn't previously been available.
So we'll continue to develop that as an asset for
the system to use. We'd actually eventually like to be able to have it as an asset
that maybe the public could use as well, but that will take a bit more investment
and technology and a bit more time.
Just one last quick one on this because, yeah, so as the ministry went through
developing this report, and thanks, it seems like it's going to be useful going
forward, but were you more or less surprised about what you
uncovered?
So yeah, probably one of the things that was quite surprising to
me was that internationally,
actually, in New Zealand, we're using primary legislation for
quite detailed regulatory activity.
So for example, if you look at telecoms, we have the telecom development levy
calculation is in primary legislation.
Mm-hmm.
So as the cost base for telecoms changes, which it has changed
dramatically-
Mm
... it means you have to get back into the house to actually change that
calculation.
And I think that's probably something that was a bit surprising to
me that, over the years,
there has been more detailed
regulatory instruments placed in primary legislation, which then can
be a disadvantage if things significantly change
because the legislative process-
Yeah
... takes some time.
Yeah. Thank you.
Thank you. Just from myself, I'll come back to you, Georgie.
What are the key things
you'll be focusing on the next 12 months?
You've identified sort of 17 and then the cost savings of 12, but what
are the sort of top three or four you'll be targeting?
Is DOG one of those?
So
what we'll be targeting is we're
continuing to do our reviews. So we've got a number of reviews.
What we will be doing is we'll be putting a presentation through to the
incoming minister post the election, and obviously that minister will need to then
decide which of the reviews that we've identified
that have come either through feedback from the public or business
that we'd like to move forward. So we'll continue with the reviews.
I know we did table our kind of strategic intentions, and you'll see
there's still the requirement to do four reviews a year.
And then our reported work program will be working with agencies on
their plans for regulatory stock and also the CASAs
and the RAS as well.
So can you name them, the top sort of four you'll be working on over the next
little while?
We're working on solar at the minute.
We're also working on hospitality, so we'd expect to be tabling a
report to ministers before the election on regulation in hospitality.
We're also working on an area called offensive trades.
So legally, there's a
list of occupations that are listed as offensive trades, which is probably
well out of date, so we're working on that.
We're also-
Sorry, just an example. What's an offensive trade?
I think I'll have to hand over to... Oh, Paul, you're here.
So
a lot of it's around like grinding up of bones.
There's one around soil collection, which is from the '60s, which is around
collecting of sewage.
It's in the Health Act from 1956, and a lot of them have been superseded
by other legislation that's since come in. So we've done a review.
The
cabinet paper's kind of going through ministerial consultation at the moment, and
that will go through to cabinet, we're hoping, in the next month with regards to
these 19 offensive trades.
Yeah.
There's general agreement between ourselves and health around the way forward on
that one.
So some of that's also identifying legislative hygiene effectively.
A lot of that one is a legislative hygiene exercise.
It's been a relatively straightforward review on a specific industry. Yeah.
And also, and just in terms of how you work your cost-benefit analysis as you
identify the problem and the potential cost or cost saving-
Mm
... is that something you do internally with your economists and bits and pieces?
Yep. So on all our reviews, Kevin's over there, he can come and join us if he
wants. In terms of we undertake a cost-benefit analysis, like for that one there
for offensive trades, we're aware that there is about 2 to 400 offensive trade
businesses registered as an offensive trade in New Zealand at the moment.
They need to register with their local council on an annual basis.
There's a cost to that.
From the council's perspective, there is no benefit to them whatsoever.
There's no benefit to the industry.
So you can see what direction we're going to go in for that one, and so we can
quantify that relatively straightforward in terms of the cost benefit savings, but
also the administrative process around those businesses having to actually register
their business, the councils even needing to actually then process
those applications. There are other acts, like the Health Act,
the Work Safety and Health Act as well, that actually cover all of the areas of
what the 1956 requirements do. So,
it's a straightforward calculation on that one.
Yeah. Thank you. Georgie.
Thank you. I just had some questions around your use of AI.
Could you speak to
how AI has been used in the previous financial year
and how much of a cost that was to the ministry?
Yeah, sure. Probably hand over to Paula.
Sure.
At this point she can talk it through, yeah.
Yeah, in terms of the cost of AI, so that broadly comes down to our use of
Microsoft Copilot for that circa 100,000 or
106,000 in total. So that includes both the
use of our licenses, and that's for all of our people.
So all of our people have access to Copilot Pro,
and also training. So we did both general training to ensure well
ahead of rollout that all of our people would know how to use it properly, and
bespoke training for key teams. For example, teams that are using it in
relation to legal and policy work.
In terms of how we're using AI, of course, we're using it
within a range of things. So for research, for analysis, for
early input. And it's very important to note
that, of course, there is nothing that goes out of the ministry without it
having the oversight of ministry people.
It enables us to effectively get more out of our skilled and capable
workforce, and for them to be able to put their skill
where it's going to add most value overall.
Great, thank you. And so now looking forward about that use
of AI,
considering the government's intentions to use more
AI and technology in the public service, what do you anticipate
that looks like in the future for the use of AI within the
ministry?
I think, and Grainne, you may wish to speak to that after me.
We probably are an agency who's been a reasonably early leader in this
space. So for us, it's building on that really good base that we've already
completed. It's thinking about how can we do that to ensure
that any work that we do is done most efficiently and most effectively,
and supports us certainly as we move into an environment where we need to
think always more carefully about cost.
And as I said, it's a tool that actually helps us to support our staff
productivity.
Cool, thank you. And do you anticipate any staff,
AI replacing any of your staff at this stage?
No.
So we won't expect that over the next financial year?
No, and I think if I think about this project, and we did
use AI in terms of some of the unstructured
data.
What was really important about this project was actually the
staff coming up with the questions that we wanted answered and what
the use cases would be. And if we hadn't done that, then actually the use of
AI would be unhelpful because you're just throwing AI at
something and asking it to give you an answer.
But if you haven't done that thinking beforehand.
So in some cases, what we find is that time
invested by staff up front actually really helped
leverage the technology to then get
the better answers. But if we hadn't had those staff, then it
would've been counterproductive to use AI.
Yeah. Cool. Thank you.
Thanks.
Grainne, I think it looks like we've exhausted our questions for now.
Okay.
So thank you for your time and for coming in, and your report.
Look forward to reading your updated
reports. Yeah.
Yeah, thank you very much. Thanks very much for your time.
Thank you.